01. I daydream and fantasise, with some regularity, about things that might happen to me.
02. I often have tender, concerned feelings for people less fortunate than me.
03. I sometimes find it difficult to see things from the “other guy’s” point of view.
04. Sometimes I don’t feel very sorry for other people when they are having problems.
05. I really get involved with the feelings of the characters in a novel.
06. In emergency situations, I feel apprehensive and ill-at-ease.
07. I am usually objective when I watch a movie or play, and I don’t often get completely caught up in it.
08. I try to look at everybody’s side of a disagreement before I make a decision.
09. When I see someone being taken advantage of, I feel kind of protective towards them.
10. I sometimes feel helpless when I am in the middle of a very emotional situation.
11. I sometimes try to understand my friends better by imagining how things look from their perspective.
12. Becoming extremely involved in a good book or movie is somewhat rare for me.
13. When I see someone get hurt, I tend to remain calm.
14. Other people’s misfortunes do not usually disturb me a great deal.
15. If I’m sure I’m right about something, I don’t waste much time listening to other people’s arguments.
16. After seeing a play or movie, I have felt as though I were one of the characters.
17. Being in a tense emotional situation scares me.
18. When I see someone being treated unfairly, I sometimes don’t feel very much pity for them.
19. I am usually pretty effective in dealing with emergencies.
20. I am often quite touched by things that I see happen.
21. I believe that there are two sides to every question and try to look at them both.
22. I would describe myself as a pretty soft-hearted person.
23. When I watch a good movie, I can very easily put myself in the place of a leading character.
24. I tend to lose control during emergencies.
25. When I’m upset at someone, I usually try to “put myself in his shoes” for a while.
26. When I am reading an interesting story or novel, I imagine how I would feel if the events in the story were happening to me.
27. When I see someone who badly needs help in an emergency, I go to pieces.
28. Before criticizing somebody, I try to imagine how I would feel if I were in their place.